CPSC 441, Assignment 3
Glenn Skelton

Observations and Recommendations:

In the first test case, I choose to use a range of values between a 
packet buffer size of 10 up to a packet size of 1000. Aside from the 
values 10, 50, and 100, I choose to make my step value increase by 
200 packets for each test since the difference in values was much 
more gradual after the buffer size reached 100. After obtaining my
results from each test, I plotted on a graph my packet loss and 
average delay to make an estimated guess as to what I considered to
be a reasonable and acceptable tradeoff between the two. I also 
generated a normalized graph containing both variables and, while 
it was tempting to choose a point where the two graphs intersected, 
I decided to move my buffer size further down the graph. This was 
because it seemed to be more valuable to have a lower packet loss 
than what the intersection point would have offered. I made the 
decision that I wanted my packet loss to be below the 1% margin.
With this and the fact that I like rounded numbers, I eventually 
settled on choosing 200 for my variable buffer size since it met 
the criteria which I felt were more important in this situation.
By choosing the buffer size to be 200, I was able to obtain a packet
loss rate of 0.84% and an average delay of 0.023 seconds which was
a value that lay relatively in the middle of the values sampled 
which seemed like a reasonable place to be. 

When the link bandwidth was changed to 6 Mbps in the second test
case, I was amazed at the drastic increase in packet loss. I was 
much greater than I had anticipated considering the link speed 
was only decreased by a little over 50%. As expected though, the
delay increased by quite a bit due to the slow rate of the buffer
to move packets out. I was very impressed with the performance of
the 54 Mbps bandwidth and would recommend this choice as an upgrade
since it had the lowest average delay and 0% packet loss. However,
an investment like that could be rather costly. As a reasonable 
tradeoff, the 30 Mbps test case also provided 0% packet loss rate
and only a 0.0026 second increase in buffer delay which if it is a
reasonably priced option would a reasonable middle of the road
option for performance and price. I would certainly not recommend
a bandwidth of 6 Mbps given its lousy performance and as a marginal
improvement from the default setup provided by the employer, the 
buffer size increase would be my second recommendation if price was
a large deciding factor.

